My research goal is to develop principled machine learning models to discover actionable knowledge from large, messy datasets. My applied focus is healthcare, where novel probabilistic models and optimization algorithms are needed to learn from big, noisy, unlabeled electronic health records to produce recommendations clinicians can trust to improve patient care. My research provides better methods to the machine learning community, patient-specific treatment advice to doctors, and scientific insight into possible subtypes or trajectories of targeted diseases. I strive to deliver top-tier publications in both computational and clinical venues, as well as reproducible open-source software and (eventually) deployed clinical decision support systems.

My background in statistical machine learning, optimization algorithms, clinical informatics, and open-source software engineering makes me uniquely positioned to achieve these goals. Through my postdoctoral training, I have experience in 3 distinct clinical informatics projects: modeling vital sign trajectories in the Intensive Care Unit across 36,000 patients to predict the need for mechanical ventilators over time; modeling coded EHR histories from over 50,000 patients with major depression disorder to improve recommendations for antidepressants (with Dr. Roy Perlis and Dr. Tom McCoy at Mass. General Hospital); and modeling patient histories to improve treatments for infertility. Armed with this background, I am excited to pursue deep informatics collaborations with clinicians at Tufts School of Medicine, seek funding for such projects, and train computing students to produce strong interdisciplinary research.