## Existing Courses You'd Like to Teach

1) Data Science

I am excited to train the next generation of data scientists while emphasizing
the *science* in data science. I see this as a course with two parts: an early
case-study based course where students develop data science skills, and then a
large open-ended team project, to help students practice these skills in an
end-to-end way: asking the right questions, cleaning messy datasets, applying
appropriate quantitative methods, evaluating carefully, and communicating
insights effectively. I will particularly promote projects that apply "data
science for social good" and encourage projects to be released openly on
Github. I'd also like to emphasize reproducible research strategies, by having
projects due one week early, and then having students swap projects and try to
replicate results with minimal feedback.

2) Bayesian Inference and Reasoning

People often need to update their beliefs given new information; I am excited
about introducing a formal toolkit for how to do this to students. I see this
course as introducing classical math ideas (Bayes rule, credible intervals,
etc.) but also exploring modern computational methods, such has having
students use the Stan probablistic programming language (mc-stan.org, released
by Prof. Andrew Gelman's lab at Columbia) -- to explore different models on
applied datasets by specifying only the model itself; no custom inference code
needed. This lets students easily perform multiple iterations of the hypothesize, evaluate, criticize, repeat loop of statistical modeling.

3) Human Factors in Interface Design

I see HFID as an excellent chance for students to practice some design skills
learned earlier (in UOCD) while honing specific skills related to interactions
with computers. I'd be excited to co-teach a flavor of HFID that is focused on
problems in healthcare, such as mobile health monitoring apps or electronic
medical records. I would hope to partner with local companies like
AthenaHealth to provide possible projects or problems to study. I could see
versions of this course expanding to partner with medical students (from
Harvard or other nearby places) to co-design patient-centered solutions.

4) Foundations of Computer Science

I would take this course in a very targeted direction: emphasizing the design
and analysis of algorithms and data structures while still helping students
get a broad overview of other foundational CS knowledge. Knowing the
difference between a linear algorithm and a quadratic one can be ground-
breaking in large implementations, and I'd like to help students understand
why this matters (and when other practical factors make such analysis
irrelevant). For deliverables, I'd have students write improved versions of
Wikipedia articles explaining core course concepts, with accompanying code
demonstrations.


## New Courses

1) Questions in Fairness and Transparency when Machine Learning meets Society

The collision of automated predictive systems with human systems leads to
many questions at the intersection of technology and social sciences: How do
we prevent discrimination when algorithms make decisions about bail or
sentencing? How do we ensure a driverless car's decisions are understandable
or justified? This course will draw from recent literature to understand these
problems and attempted solutions, using a case study approach that covers both
the algorithms involved and the social science implications. I would invite
guest speakers from my Boston-area network to provide cutting-edge
perspectives. Ideally would be co-taught with a social scientist, at half AHSE
and half ENGR credit, and would encourage Wellesley students to register.


2) Machine Learning for Healthcare

This is a hands-on course for advanced students who have taken Data Science or
its equivalent. All students will gain access to "MIMIC"
(https://mimic.physionet.org/), an open dataset of ~40,000 deidentified
patients from Boston-area Intensive Care Units, including demographics, vital
signs, laboratory tests, medications, and more. Early classes will catch
students up on big technical challenges in this space: missing data,
inaccurate data, causal leakage, etc. Working in teams, students will form
meaningful research questions, propose research plans, and then pursue these
plans throughout the semester. A target outcome would be the equivalent of a
short research paper submitted to a ML+Health workshop at a major machine
learning conference.


## Abstract for a Talk

Machine learning has the potential to assist doctors with many decisions. But
how can we train models that clinical decision-makers can understand and
trust? In this talk, I will discuss broad challenges in this space and two
recent projects that adapt popular machine learning methods to improve
interpretability.

First, we look at probabilistic topic models as useful low-dimensional
representations of electronic health records (EHR). Off-the-shelf attempts at
using these representations in prediction tasks (e.g. will this drug work for
this patient?) often fail because of model misspecification. We show how our
new semi-supervised training objective overcomes this misspecification,
producing models that perform better at drug recommendation tasks while having
more understandable representations that help clinicians gain population-wide
insights.

Second, we look at deep time-series models for forecasting outcomes of
patients with sepsis or HIV. We show that we can *optimize* these models to
have predictions that are explained well by a small decision tree. Clinicians
often use decision trees to perform diagnoses, so finding a deep model with
decision-tree-like boundaries allows clinicians to approximately simulate its
predictions. We show this method can reach a sweet spot of good predictions
yet small simulation cost not possible by other techniques.


## Future plans for external work

I hope the primary impact of my external research is improving healthcare by
providing more predictive and more interpretable machine learning models. I am
excited to continue research collaborations with Boston-area institutions
(Prof. Doshi-Velez at Harvard, Prof. Leo Celi and the MIMIC/Physionet team at
MIT, Dr. Perlis at MGH). I think it would be easy to plug self-motivated Olin
undergraduates into these research collaborations, though of course the
specific projects need to be tailored to the needs of Olin students.

One natural project is creating widely used public benchmark datasets for
assessing ML prediction systems on clinical tasks. Just as large curated
datasets of images with category labels has launched the recent wave of
interest in "deep" machine learning, I think well-designed benchmarks would do
the same for healthcare. Students could use the raw data in the MIMIC dataset,
which is really just a dump of many patients' data in a hard-to-use format.
The project would be to create carefully curated subtasks with input from
domain experts (e.g. predicting need for ventilation from vital signs) and
create a web interface that would make it easy for other researchers to run
their methods on the task. This would mostly involve some SQL, some Python,
and some careful UX design -- a reachable goal for any Olin student who has
completed Software Design.


## Personal and Professional Growth

I am excited to become faculty at a place with a strong sense of community.
From my own time there, I know that Olin has a strong sense of shared purpose
and would be a supportive place to do cross-disciplinary work. I particularly
value the emphasis Olin places on outreach and community service. I am eager
to be back in an institution that would look favorably on my work with K-12
education initiatives (like the TEALS "CS in Every High School" program). I
think these programs are one of the best ways to improve diversity in STEM
fields.

